Interesting visualization, thanks for posting. The OP (sealite) requested suggestions for a posting of a bar chart showing smoking prevalence by sex in top-5 GDP countries (2012). The visualization displays this information in a bar chart with male and female smoking prevalences represented as separate color-contrasting vertical bars grouped by country, from left to right United States, China, Japan, Germany and United Kingdom.

Without neither an accompanying textual description nor visually encoded statistical information, it is unclear what the intended take-away message is. And that is my first suggestion -- to consider the audience and the message you want to convey to them.

The most notable feature of this graph is an apparent the readily apparent sex difference observed in Asian countries (China, Japan) 
compared to Western coutries (US, UK, Germany). This sex by location interaction manifests as follows: In Western countries we see a slight sex difference in adult smoking prevalence with a greater percentage of males smoking compared to females. Eyeballing the chart it looks like in Western countries adult males smoke about 5% 
more on average than females. In Asian countries, we note a similar but more pronounced sex effect in adult smoking prevalence. This effect is most striking in China where we see a drastic difference between males and females. From the graph it 
looks like about 48%  of males in China smoke, whereas only about 3% of females 
do, a gender difference of around 45%.

I have a few comments that might improve this visualization: 

(1) What is the point you are trying to convey? What is the take-home message
you want to the viewer to take away from your visualization? If it's the apparent
dichotomy between Asian and Western countries mentioned above, then visually
group the countries by Asian/Western. Is there a reason the countries are ordered
the way they are? Should they be alphabetical instead?

(2) Add some additional context on the nature of the underlying data so that the viz can stand-alone
more. The title could be altered to reflect the type of data collected -- e.g., 
"Percentage of Self-report Smokers in Top-5 GDP Countries (2012)". 

(3) y-axis label change spelling from "Percent" to 'Percentage". Consider adding
more info in label -- e.g., "Precentage of Adults (18+)".

(4) Add error bars and/or indicators of significance - this really depends upon
your intended audience.

Before speculating on cultural differences between Western and Asian cultures
driving these gender differences, I would want to know more about how these
data were collected, as it is unclear from the graph what the nature of the
underlying data are. For example, these data may have been collected through some 
sort of survey technique, perhaps an email questionaire. One which asks 
respondents to fill out a short 20 questions survey, which include typical
self-report and demographic data such as respondent age, gender, ethnicity, and 
perhaps additonal questions of primary interest, for example: smoking and 
drinkking behavior. This sort of self-report data is often unreliable as respondents 
may not respond truthfully as they want to portray themselves in a more positive
light, a so-called social desirability bias. The apparent COUNTRY x GENDER 
interaction shown in the graph could really refelect differences
in social desirability bias rather than the believed metric, i.e. smoking rates.
Other studies have reported gender differences in social desirability bias. For
example Hebert et al. (1997) work suggest that social desirability and 
social approval biases vary by gender. 
